hi it's Barney from BBC good food and
here and I'll be showing you how to
prepare and chocolate pineapple now
there are two ways of peeling the
pineapple to start off with whichever
way you choose you need to take the top
of the bottom off the first I'm going to
show you is the more ornate way where
you get these lovely kind of spiral
carvings into it which you've taken the
eyes out of so I'll do that first first
things first
top and bottom so you want a serrated
knife because your is going to be more
of a soaring action and a chopping
action and we're just going to take
strips of the pineapple thin strips the
pineapple skin off working your way
around now we want to cut the eyes out
now they're in a helter-skelter con a
spiral diagonal pattern and it's just a
matter of cutting these out of the
pineapple along where the eyes are so on
like this just to get rid of them all it
takes a little bit of time and so then
what you end up with it's a pineapple
like this with all the eyes cut out so
next way it's very civilized that it's
easier and it's quicker but there is a
little bit always the same thing again
top and bottom and then it's just a
matter of doing the same thing again but
we're going to go deeper into the
pineapple so we cut the eyes out as we
feel it there's the pineapple peel
there's a couple of little dimples where
and where the eyes were but that's all
completely edible so whichever way you
choose you now want to chop your
pineapple I'm going to show you how to
slice and then half dice the pineapple
so first way is to slice the pineapple
now you can do this is thick or as thin
as you want you can do it really thinly
for like a pineapple carpaccio or use
thicker slices like yet with ten
pineapple now I'm a problem with the
pineapple corer I ate it I really like
it but I know some people find it
tougher woody with your pineapple slices
the easiest way to get rid of it you can
work around it with the tip of a knife
or you can just get yourself cookie
cutter or biscuit cutter and then you
simply just take the middle out
like this and there you have your
classic pineapple ring you can serve
like that we can also cut this into
chunks
so if I've cut the pineapple ringing
such I'm simply cut it in before like so
we have classic fruit salad pineapple
chunks another way of getting really
nice pineapple chunks is to pour to the
pineapple so we're just going to cut it
in half and cut each half in half again
and then it's just a matter of cutting
the core away by working out where the
core is you can see it on the pineapple
and we're just going to cut down to
remove it and now with each quarter
you're free to cut your chunks big or as
small as you like so if you're doing
pineapple kabobs for example you want
quite big chunks like this kind of
classic kebab chunk or if you're putting
it through a salad or a stir-fry you
might want to do thinner pieces or you
can just keep them really large just
pour them for eating like this these
large chunks be delicious dipped in
chocolate and that's how you prepare a
pineapple some big secrecy
[Music]